Finding Common Ground: Cooperation, Communication, Embodiment

Story: flight booking AI hallucinates that you can get a discount for flights to funerals by applying within 90 days
Story: starting an AI therapist
Story: filming self-driving cars on youtube
AI interacts/collaborates with users



Are machines socially intelligent enough to take real-life social roles?
  NO
  AIs need to:
    interact with humans Strategically and Savety
    understand humans' Intention and Mental model
    and have the knowledge and capacity for Grounded Interaction

Simulation with 40 artificiional characters
  name, occupation, personalities, etc
  example:
    Zane:
      friends with Donovan
      hates his co-worker and is willing to take the risk to hurt them
      Human crowdworker, playing Donovan, tasked to convince Zane to not hurt co-worker
      GPT4 response: "youre right, causing harm doesn't help. But what if we sabotage their work subtly"?
        Violating intention in a covert way
  :: covertly dangerous - not safe
  :: did not understand the true intention of human interlocutor - not theory of mind

  example:
    Will sharing a blanket make 2 people warmer than using it alone?
      GPT4: yes, sharing it can make two people warmer, body heat, reduced heat loss, . . .
    But ask GPT-4 to roleplay as a camper and ask it to deny requests to share the blanket with friends
      "sorry but if I share the blanket there will be more airspace to need warmed up"
    :: So it has acts according to different beliefs when roleplaying as an agent - not grounded


3 papers:

SOTOPIA ICLR 2024
  From intrinsic collaborators to strategic social participants
    from a young age, humans want to be helpful -> leads to strategic interaction for negotiation , exchange, competition, collaboration, accommodation, etc

  Social intelligence: manage one's social role to achieve desired social goal

  Social tasks: take place in social contaxt with N characters, each with social role and social goal

  exchange task: seller role with task to sell tv for 500$, buyer role with task to buy TV for 450$

  how to create social tasks?
    environment challenges: creating and evaluation
    agent task: modeling agent

    Prompt LLM to generate new social tasks that is similar to two hand-crafted tasks
    metrics: has the goal been completed? how has the relationship changed? is the interaction believable? does it follow social norms? . . . etc
      compared against human measure: 74% of GPT4 evals are within one stdev of human ratings
SOTOPIA-pi - improving agents
  behavior cloning: a character mimics an expert
  self-reinforcement: a characters policy is improved with examples that are rated positive


Theory of Mind few-shot coordination ICML 2021

  environtment challenges: on which tasks can we evaluate ToM in agents
  agent challenges: how can we improve ToM in agents

  how ToM enables efficient communication:
    task: instruct a robot to pick up and cool a winebottle an put it on the table

    needs to understand and act upon others' mental states
    then it can realize when the model does not understand and give a clarifying instruction
    


Excalibur embodied exploration CVPR 2023

  Babies already actively explore the world before using language

  have agent work in virtual 3d environment
  training based on answering Qs about environment improves # of objects explored

  task in browser environment

  Embodied exploration is a huge challenge for language agents


Future Directions to bring together these three angles towards real-world AI

  can apply methodology to multimodal LMs
    Q1: is the collaboation successful?
    Q2: is the interaction fluent?

  What are the emerging challenges of grounding social interaction into the physical world?

    If a car cuts infront of you:
      response depends on :
        do they see me 
        are they paying attentionw
        what is their intiontion
      implicit cooperation-- no clear common goal
      nono-verbal communication -eyes action
      embodied decision making

  How to use Gooperative AI for Games?
    GenAI for Assets
    AI for Game players
    AI for NPCs

    but it can be more:
      AI coaching for chess (cooperation)
      Socially  Intelligent AI Teammates (Communication)
      AI Generated Games (Embodiment)