Computational Approaches to Narratives
(Maria Antoniak jobtalk)

Goal of research is to use NLP and LLM tools creatively to study human experiences (cultural analytics)
Focus research questions on :
  People
  subjective cultural concepts
  healthcare

evaluating NLP tools, using NLP models for cultural analytics

"CULTURAL ANALYTICS"
  the computational study of cultural objects processes, agents
  traditional unsupervised NLP methods, as well as new LLM-powered ways

Computational analysis of online storytelling:
  As a rhetorical strategy, storytelling can:
    drive social moveements, spread misinformation, educate
  As a form of self-disclosure:
    strengthen social bonds, build trust, benefit the teller
  For NLP:
    better understand pretraining and prompting

Interested in discussions about storytelling
  study of literary reception, genre formation, canonization 
    (traditioanlly focused on elite readers, but now able to diversivy oer internet)
  Online Reading Communities - new evidence . . . . 


NLP/ML/Industry 
  often focuses on downstream/tasks
  but there is also the "upstream" ie authors, data creation, curation, text processing (all which go into the LM)

  but downstream models weren't designed for use on upstream analytics
    can be unstable and biased, reflect idiosyncrasies of the training data and its curation
    need to measure  . . . 

"Person-focused Healthcare"
  "biomedical NLP": information extraction, diagnosis prediction
  instead: analysis of online health support commintites, LLM chatbots for support, senesemeaking/storytelling strateigeis
  "narrative medicine": use patients' narratives to promote healing





"Where do people tell stories online? Story Detection Across Online Communities"
  stories are all over the internet (twitter, reddit, fanfiction, e-books, etc. 
  also scattered across communities (healthcare anecdotes in r/cancer, r/leukemia, etc)

  Prior work has:
    examined storytelling in specific settigs and on specific topics
    compared communiteis using features like trust, linguistic distinctiveness, network measurements
    BUT havent been able to answer "where do people stories online" . . . .
  Challenges:
    stories and non-stories are mixed together across topics and within individual texts
    defining stories is notoriously difficult. There is an entire field "narratology" of the theory of narratives
    Existing story datasets do NOT meet thre requirements (may be far too sparse, written in other lanugage, etc)
  Solution: The StorySeekerFramework
    formalize the task fo story detection, introducing task of story span detection (by linking to event detection
    release expert-annotated dataset, codebook, etc for detecting
    
  Building a story detection dataset:
    Reddit Webis-TLDR-17 dataset
      3.8M reddit posts and comments
      ~270 words each
      each with TL;DR summary
      2006-2016
      we subsample from this data
  Buillding the codebook:
    iterations of open coding, discussionas and alighnment
    team from narratology, economics, computer science
    focus on agent-driven events
    many difficult diecisions:
      hypothetical stories, present tense, verbs with negation, how to determine if events are connected
    "A story describes a sequence of events involving one or more people"
      could be as short as one sentence, or as long as an entire post
      -who/what qualifies as "people"
      -what are events
      -what are sequences of events
    (the full codebook is available on github
    First annotated event spands, then annotated story spans
  Final dataset:
    235 stories, 267 non-stories
    cohens kappa of .72 for story spans, .65 for event spans
    texts 100-500 words in length, mean span lank is 92 tokens for comments, 119 tokens for posts

  Building a story detector
    evaluate a series of models for the story-detection task
      tf-idf, ft roberta, zs/fs gpt4
    For document-level classification:
      GPT-4 is best, but ft roberta is close behind
    For span-level classification:
      ft roberta is best

  Where do people tell stories?
    categorized 500 subreddits
    which subreddit categories have omre storytelling?
      high in storytelling, r/tifu, r/breakups, r/pettyrevenge, . . . 
      also high in animals, heathcare, addiction, mental health, hildren, relationships, confessions categories . . .
      low in news and politics categories
  Can rank across two axes:
    storytelling rate x distinctiveness of vocabulary used
      different categoreis of communities form different subreddit

  Plot debate topics and amount of story topics as a rhetorical strategy in replies
    social norms, lifestyle choices, music recieve more storytelling comments
    rights & laws, religion, economic systems recieve fewer
  But are those stories persuasive?
    lifestyle choices have most persuasive stories
    But more importantly, look for categories where they are unlikely to be used, but likely to be persuasive

  Future Directions:
    -how do different demographic groups percieve stories
      -what rationales do they provide when identifying a story
      -how does this compare to our "expert" annoataions
    analysis of event annotations and the relationship to stories

  "Take my data: an anlysis of personal information disclosure in human-chatbot interactions"
    as people use chatbots, risks emerge about the information shared with the chatbots
      How much sensitive infomration are users sharing, 
      in what contexts does more sharing happen

    use a dataset called "WildChat"
      offered free access to GPT in exchange that their datasets could be used for research (650,000 user converstations)

      Journalist input private texts from a source (woman whose children have health issues) to ask for an article

    Found that there is a lot of creative writing (fan fiction, etc)

    Creative writing: sexual preferences, hobbies
    Non-creative writing: work infor, including verbatim emails and texts, etc.
    advise: health info, relationship

    PII distributions shift when stories are filtered
      proportion of firstnames goes down
      jobs, financial infomration increases when not including stories


"Narrative Paths and Negotiation of Power in Birth Stories"
  Healthcare community where storytelling is very important

  Maternal mortality rates are higher
  Postpartum depression rates at 6-13

  Online "Birth stories"
    detailed personal narratives of giving birth that have been sshared throghout history and are very popular online

  RQs:
    What narrative of pathways are described? How are expectoed or unexpected event sequences framed?
    Who is framed as holding power and what about them?

  Data: r/BabyBumps, look for text "birth story"
    Stories can be Very complicated and difficult to analyze stories, so want to target medium complexity
  Ethical questions:
    need to consider:
      privacy tradeoff
      setting and context
      who is most vulnerable
    Our decisions:
      Paraphrase all quotes
      no data release
      share our findings on r/BabyBumps
  
  Narrative Patters: Topic over time
    Trainied latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) topic model on the stories
    LDA is an unsupervised, generative model that produces a probaility distirbution over words for each topic and a probability distribution over topics for each hdocument
    Divide each story into 10 equal chungs, and generate the probability distribution

    create plots for different topics (e.g. sleep is most often a topic at the beginning and end of birth stories)

    Can find likelihoods for most probable sequences of topics
    create flowchart

    can use this to look for outliers in stories

    Power framing: lexicon of verbs
      adapted from dataset of movie scripts

      baby has least power, medical professionals have more than author, "we" (author+doula) have more than nurse
      
  Limitations: 
    findings apply to one reddit community

"NLP for Maternal Healthcare: Perspectives and Guiding Principles in the Age of LLMs"
  follow up

Future Work: Longterm goal
  use methods from NLP to illuminate subjective human experiences: stories, values, self-disclosure, for applications in healthacare and digital humanities
  Modeling narratives:
    study folkloricand memetic tradition storyytelling
    Focus on llms and healthcare

   Toolbuilding for Bridging AI and humanities
    aiforhumanists.com
    RIVETER - python pipeline for extracting and measuring connotation froames
    More tools: mallet wrapper, goodreads scraper, etc



QUESTIONS:
  Question about application to multimodal video mediums
  Does perspective make a difference in story detection? e.g. when I tell a story vs when I tell a 3rd person story
    Depends on the community  
