PSLLT 2023

Wednesday:
    Data visualization for Linguists (Joseph V. Casillas - Rutgers University)
        R
        jvcasillas.com/dv4ss/index.html for slides and demo R script
        
        Goals:
            make elegant, truthful, plots
            help reader understand data
            make process repeatable and shareable
            discuss pitfalls and bad practices
            provide resources to help continue learning

        "Just use a table . . . the data speaks for itself"
            cringe
            you might not know that you're looking like a dinosaur
            "Stats don't lie, but liars use stats" / "The numbers don't lie, but liars use numbers"
        
        "There is no way to know from knowing nothing about a subject to knowing . . ."

        X-axis interpretability, Y-axis aesthetic
            Easy to end up in "fun but useless" or "suitable, but not ideal" 

        Principles of Graphic Design "CRAP"
            -Contrast, Repetition, Alignment, Proximity
            -"The Non-Designer's Design Book" by Robin Williams

            Contrast
                -if two thing's are not the same, make them very different
                    -colors : complex, accesibility for color blindness ***
                    -fonts: weight, size, family
            Repetition
                -color palettes
                -fonts (families, weights, sizes)
                -other graphical elements (alignments, etc)

                !Make it easy for readers to compare different visualizations in the same article

            Alignment
                Elements on a page/screen/plot should have a visual connection with something else on a page/screen/plot

            Proximity
                Group related items together
                Focus on document layout 
                (less applicable to data visualizations in an article)

        Types of of plots
            Pie Charts:
                -avoid
            
            Bar Graphs:
                -Box Plots are like Bar Graphs but give more information about distribution

            Box Plots:
            
            Histograms/Density plots
                -great!

            Scatterplots
                -continuous variables on x and y axis

            Heatmaps:
                -two continuous independent variables, plus one continuous dependent variables
                -can also make 3d Histograms

        Grammar of Graphics:
            -ggplot grammar of Graphics
            "The Grammar of Graphics" by Leland Wilkinson
            -map data to aesthetics

            Data:
                columns in a dataframe (excel, .csv, etc)
            Aesthetics:
                A visual property of a plot, i.e., position, shape, color, etc

        ggplot2
            -part of the "tidyverse"

            -writted by Hadley WIckham as a gradstudent at Iowa State
            -automatically deals with spacing, text, titles, or allows you to annotate

            Different layers:
                Theme, Labels, Coordinates, Facets, Scales, Geometries, Aesthetics, Data

            Components:
                dataframe
                aesthetic mappings: how data are mapped to coords, color, size, shape, etc
                geoms: geometric objects like points, lines, boxplots, etc
                stats: statistical transfomations
                facets: 'panels' for conditional plots

            Templates:
                ggplot(
                    data = DATA_FRAME,
                    mapping = aes(AESTHETIC)
                ) + geom_*()


                link <- url("")
                new_data <- readRDS(link)

                head(new_data) # to see first few rows
                summary(new_data) # to see summary (min, median, max, quartiles, etc)

                #aesthetics
                aes(
                    x = proficiency,
                    y = score,
                    . . .
                )
                
                #geometric objects
                geom_point() # scatter plot
                geom_smooth()
                geom_hist() #Histograms
                geom_bar()
                . . .

                #statistical transformation stat_*()

                + stat_summary(
                    fun.data = 
                )   

                !!! Use viridis color:
                + scale_fill_viridis_d()

                Faceting:

                #make separate plot for each value (the one after the tilde)
                . . . + facet_grid(. ~ age) + . . .
                more generally:
                . . . + facet_grid(<vertical> ~ <horizontal>) + . . .


            Good principles:
                remember CRAP
                colorblind friendly palletes
                highlight important things
                help your reader

            Bad Principles:
                plots wo contesxt
                illegible fints
                unordered xaxis
                a zillion categories
                pie Charts
                axis with scientific notation
                . . .

            Resources:
                SimplPoints (Timo Roettger yt channel)
                Dat visualization with R (course)
                The Truthful Art: Data, Charts, and Maps for Communication
                Data Visualization . . .
                . . .

            
    Online Pronunciation Practice and Data Collection (Atsushi Fukada, Purdue):
        Japanese Linguistics and Technology-Assisted Language learning
        Creator of Web Application "Speak Everywhere"
            Fukada (2013)

        Speak Everywhere
            speak-everywhere.com

        Online Oral Practice
            Various Exercise Formats

        Authoring Oral Exercises
            just use powerpoint to generate jpegs with instruction and add that as you build
            save d01.jpg, d02.jpg . . . and v01.mp4, v02.mp4, . . . all in the same .zip

        Online oral data Collection
            Jessica stat_summary    Sturm 2019 and another in preparation
                Used SpeakEverywhere to Measure the effect of innovative Cued Pronunciation Recall activities (Martin 2015)
            -Easier than for preparing oral exercises (no need to record videos)

        Workbook
            ellllc.com/LJO18/menus/umenu1.html

        Publishing Opportunities
            publish a series of Speak Everywhere exercises packaged as an "online workbook" through e-Language Learning llc


    Demystifying Open Science for Speech Research: Individual and Team-Based Approaches (Charlie Nagle - UT Austin & Amanda Huensch - University of Pittsburgh):
        What is Open Science? Why Participate?
            "Open science consists of principles and behaviors that promote transparent, credible, reproducible, and accesible science" (Parsons et al 2022, p314)

            -Improve reproducibility for you colleagues, community
            enhance credibility
            save time and money for you colleagues and the public
            accelerate discovery
            improve scholarly rigor and reach 
            (Gilmore 2023)

            FAIR: Findable, accessible interoperable reusable
            CARE: Collective benefit, Authority to Control, Responsibility, Ethics 
            )Carroll et al. 2021)

        Some practices
            Sharing: materials data, analysis code, experimental protocols
            Preregistration
            Open access publishing: preprints/postprints
            Replication

        Resources  
            Center for Open Science (COS)
            Open Science Forum (OSF)
            . . .

        
        What is data:
            Nnumeric responses stored in a csv
            raw files such as audio files, eit (elicited imitation task) recording, questionnairre responses
            Data annotations such as coding protocols, Praat TextGrids, CHAT files
        Narrow vs. Broad data and usage
            What can we use data for, depending on what is shared?
            If numberic responses, then study variables could be computed
            If raw data . . . 

            i.e., numeric only is narrow, but numeric and raw is more Broad

        osf.io/9wdah

Thursday
    Conference Welcome
        First PSLLT in 2009 in Ames, Iowa
        First conference to specifically begin to address second language pronunciation as a field
        Proceedings of PSLLT conferences have published over 400 oaoers and generated thousands of citations
        We will hear topics on 18 different languages!
        
    Plenary Address "Perceptual Pathways to L2 Pronunciation Development" (Ron Thomson - Brock University):
        What is pronunciation? What does in mean for an L2 learner to have good pronunciation?
            Speech Production / Speech Perception - equal
        Goals:
            we need to spend far more time on the process of L2 pronunciation and less time on the final Production
            update on a research-based technique that should be used by more learners/teachers

        First Language Speech Development:
            Toddler Elliot can distinguish between "Elliot" and "Elliert"
            But pronounces it as "Elliert" until a few days after being pointed Opportunities

            L1 perception begins to develop in utero (Zhao Kuhl 18)
                -preference for mothers voice (Lee Kisilevsky 2013 ; may zamuner werker 2018)
            Newbords can bpercieve contrasts for 1 year, then gain efficiency, then discriminate foreign contrasts as poorly as adults by age 4

            !Lag between L1 perception and production, BUT same trajectory
        L2
            Adult L2 pronunciation is uniquely resistant to change among L2 subskills, but can continue to improe for many years, even in naturalistic contexts without explicit training

            Individual differences:
                Age and L1 background
                    -Flege Bohn 2021 : not a drop off age
                Gender, Context, Motivation, Foreign Language Anxiety, Phonetic Aptitude

                If We have ideal instruction, these individual differences don't matter because we want them to learn like L1
        
            !GOAL OF L2 LEARNING IS TO OVERCOME L1 LIMITATIONS ON Perception

        Naturalistic L2 pronunciation  
            Must be rooted in perception
            adult learners want to quickly start speaking in L2 to do real things, (schmidt frota 86)
            younger learners have silent period (ervin tripp 74 . . .)
            . . .

            When L2 pronunciation meets learners communicative purposes, motivation to improve diminishes
            for adults this happens within 6-24 months (derwing munro 15)
            For some it continues as long as 10 years (thomson derwing munro 23)

            Instruction is an opportunity to reoritnt learners perception, even eyears after they have begun

        Lab-based perceptual Training studies:
            changes in speech perception normal
            changes faster than naturalistic
            changes not immediately in production

            HVPT - High Veriability Pronunciation/Phonetic Training

                Canonical HVPT:
                    Effective training requires multiple talkers in multiplie phonetic contexts
                    Must provide corrective feedpack
                    Train L2 vowels and consonants, with a couple exceptions for lexical tone and syllable structure

                Ex:
                    ac english accent coach

                Increase in HVPT has grown in 1991
                Growth in mentions of it on Google scholarly
                Average improvements is 10%, significant
                1/3 of studies have included delayed post tests with staying (Thomson 2018)

                Transfer to new talkers, always
                To new contexts, mixed results

                Transfer to production in controlled contexts, not more spontaneous production
                Size of gains in production less than in perception (due to the lag in mapping from perceptual to articulatory)

                Does HVPT apply to all age
                    yes 
                    some found children better than adults, some find equal
                    also works for 50 year old - second highest gain within a study

                To all L1?
                    yes

                To all preexisting L2 proficiencies?
                    yes
                    some see greater benefit for lower proficiency learners

                Limits on how much talker veriability some learners can handle (Antoniou Wong 2015)
                Some learners could not handle intermixed talkers within a single session (Furhmeister Myers 2020)
                    -have one talker per session?
                        But also some studies have found no differences

                Uchihara 2021 - Can get an advantage with 2 talkers, but even more advantage with over 8 talkers

                Auditory Attention Switching
                    Learners with more auditory attention control seem to fare better in more demanding hVPT conditions
                        But maybe no effect in ideal cananoical conditions
                    Mora-Plaza et al. 2022

                Variations to Canonical HVPT
                    Training with nonsense word is better

                    Doubling the length of vowels or optimizing for distance from learners L1 does not help
                    Tripling the length of vowels does maybe?

                    Are synthetic better than natural stimuli?

                    Discrimination Task instead of Forced Choice?
                        -Forced choice have larger effect (Shinohara Iverson 18)

                    Feedback should be immediate
                    Learners should hear target again, or on example of misperceived category, but not both

                    Production Practice
                        Many learners can be observed subvocalizing
                        immediate imitation is disruptive to learning in some cases
                        delayed imitation may be less disruptive in some circumstances


                HVPT Works in laps, but so what?
                    englishaccentcoach.com  
                        american/canadian
                        Free
                        thousands of contexts

                    Linguatorium Auris
                        paid nonprofit
                        two talkers

                    British English Vowel Trainer (Iverson Evans 2009)
                    Ouie (Inceoglu 2022) for French vowels

                Implications of hvpt reasarch for instruction
                    teachers should allot more time for perceptual training
                    incorporate variation in listening stimuli 
                    use nonsense syllables and real words
                    give corrective feedback after each items
                    use input flooding activities to give massive amounts of explosure to target sonds and opportunities to practice in communicative contexts
                    focus training on sounds that have greatisest load
                    derwing muno 2018

                    Card Game with minimal pair on either side of a card, learners show the side of the card that they heard and receive immediate feedback

                
                What if there is something better?
                    Perceptual fading (iverson 2005)
                        continuouum of stimuli from exaggerated to natural [p^hhh, p^hh, p^h]
                        similar improvement as Hvpt but more effortful to create

                    ! ! ! ! ! Golder Speaker Builder (ding 2019)
                        theoretically compelling but no empirical evidence yet that it is better
                        -Use learners own voice to synthesize 

    Talk Sessions:
        "measuring Knowledge Needed for Pronunciation Teaching and Technology Use: Developing and Validating a Survey" (Agata Guskaroska & John Levis -- Iowa State University):
            Exploring teacher cognition is important because of its impact onteaching and students' learning
            Knowledge and beliefs cognitive processes
            How do we measure knowledge?
                Surveys, interviews, tests of declarative & procedural knowledge
                How are survey items created|? HOw can we make that process more rigorous?

            Research on Teachiner Beleifs and congitions:
                semistructured interviewrs . . .
                classroom observations Baker 14; baker burri 16
                multiple measrues (Kochem 2022)
                questionaires (sifakis & sougari 2005())

            TPACK - Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge - Shulman 1986
                content knowledge is not sufficient without knowledge of pedagogy
                Mishra koehler 2006

                used to examine practitioners' TPACK
            
            1. clerly define what we are measuring 
                -define Tech, Pedagogical, produncation knowledge
                -get expert feedback
                revise
                outpucome a clear defintion
            2. create survey
                . . .

            Creswell Plano Clark 2007 instrument development model to validate study
            Chapelle 2021 vailidity arguent
                Interpretation/Use argument (the fromaework for collecting and presenting evidence, kane, 2006)
                -> Research
                -> Validity argument
            
                Comprehensive, transparent, clear rational

                Inferences -> Claims -> Assumptions => Detail for reasonging -> warrant

            Does the survey measure what it intends to measure? Is it useful for its indented burposes?

            Methodology
                Docuent analysis -. construct, item, expert, survey

                Document analysis   
                    25 documents

                    several issues:
                        imprecision of construct definitions
                        failure to identify some subdomanis as separate constructs i.e. pronuncation knowledge vs pron. content knowledge
                        subject independent vs subject dependent Surveys
                        lack of validation theory to guide the studies

                    goals:
                        clearly define the construct
                        remove overlapped subdomains

                        create subject dependent
                        validate

                Item createion
                    refer to construct, refer to survey questions from previous papers, 5 experts, feedback on survye items

                Qualtrics survey to evaluate TPAPrK items   
                    39 experts
                    23 items - essential, useful, not neccesari (Lawshe 1975) + open comments
                    distributed via social media nad empirical

                    Analisys
                        Calculated Content Validity Ratio (crv)
                        and coded open comments

                    Technological knowledge was most problematic - possibly because it is very writted
                    removed one item and revised all items with negative scores or which had qualitiative feedback suggesting a need for revision

        "The effect of perception training with synthetic and natural stimuli on the identification of english vowels /ae/ and /3/" (Rosane Silveira & Elisabeth Ann Bunch Oliveira da Rosa - Federal University of Santa Catarina):
            BR Portuguese lacks /ae/, tendence to conflate with /3/ in production; difficulty to perceive contrasts
                Many previous studies benefit from training with synthetic values

            Objectives
                compare effect of natural vs sunthetic stimuli
                understand ability of learners to generalize to new voices
                are participants able to Replication
            
            Synthetic stimuli in this study:
                Manipulation of duration of vowel sounds    
                Temporal exaggeration can help learners develop new contrasts

            HVPT
                expose listenerw to multiple voices speaking target sounds or workds
                helps listeners to disregard speech differences that are irrelvant to perception of an L2 contrast to instead focus on the acoustic differences that ARE important for the L2 sounds
                
            Identification training and cue weigting
                l2 learners of english rely on duration rather than formant frequency

            In Brazil you can not pay participants so they had to be volunteers
            57, split into control, natural, and synthetic croups

            vowel identification test from american and highly proficient brazillian speakers

            Pretest: 12 tokens in triads with duration not altered
                -all three groups listened to same pretest
                -gorilla experiment builder, 24 opportunities to respond
                    -able to Replication
                    -immediate feedback for incorrect answers
                    -natural group presented original sounds, synthetic had vowel lengthened to 350ms

            Posttest and delayed posttest:
                -included unfamiliar tokens
                posttest: right after training
                delayed: six days after completion of the post test
                ~20 minutes of data collection

            Results:
                H1: syntehic would increase perceptual ability over natural stimuli
                    - improvement for both. Instruction was equally beneficial for both groups, so H1 NOT Confirmed
                H2: participants with synth. would be better at generalilzign
                    - both perform similarly with familiar and unfamiliar tokens. Generalization confirmed for both experimental groups. H2 is not confirmed
                H3: participants with synth would better retain their learning
                    -both groups maintained learning, but only naturla group showed improvent. But not to a statistically significant degree

            Consideration:
                this study confirms the effectiveness of identification perception training
                no significant difference between synthetic and natural stimuli
                    maybe it was just for this vowel pair, other studies have included more vowel participants
                training generalizes to new voices and words
                controlled tasks alone can trigger attention and lead to learning
                results support SLM (flege bohn 21), imply that new phonetic categories can be formed through training

            Questions:
                All tests (pre-, post-, delayed-post-) were natural
                natural stimuli were shorter than 350ms, so all synthesizing was extending 

        "Teachers' social characteristics modulate language learns' pronunciation preferences" (Shannon Barrios, Rachel Hayes-Harb, and Alayo Tripp - University of Florida):
            osf.io/8nu2p

            Flores & Rosa 2019 Elite Multilingualism
                limits ways of engaging with the research
                conduct for the purpose of investigating not reinforcing or legitimizing them
                meant to capture existing beliefs

            L2 involves novel contrasts and novel phonetics
                have to in highly variable input    
                    track VOT durations that are subphonemic in English
                    other variability is noncontrastive
                        speech rate 
                        dialectal variation
                        phonological contexts
                        individual talker differences
                
                subphonemic variation between talkers is a property of speech
                i.e. some people have long vot/short vot
                listeners can track the phonetic characteristics of individual talkers

                speech learning may be enhanced by noncontrastive variability, e.g. hvpt multi-talker leading to more robust categories

            Most studies do not note the social setting and especially don't manipulate
                !Input is never socially neutral
                    -what is it and how does it impact what learners take always
                    how we interpret speech depends on who we think we are hearing
                        race, age, gender, etc.
                Tripp 19 - Affiliative Model describes learners as preferring input from talkers who they believe belong to knowledgeable groups

            Language learners experience the speech of multiple talkers: in a classroom- from teacher and from student Perceptions
                social perception and language ideologies may influence language learners to selectively attend to teachers as better informants
                nativeness bias, 
                    some research has enforced while some has problematized
                intelligibility principle (levis 05)
                    -also problematic in underspecified contrast

            Results:
                when they only heard short, or only heard long, they prefer the one they heard (control conditions)
                In test conditions - no preference at first test, but in second test, they prefer whatever they heard the teacher syllable

            Repeated with /s///z/ contrast, now much stronger effect in favor of the teacher

            How can we moderate this effect?
                -perceive teachers as better/worse, by giving them "background info" on the "teacher"
                    one highly praised and native ; one "struggling" and adult learner of L2

                Result: strong effect in "favorable teacher"
                        weaker effect in "unfavorable", no significance by end of second test

            Takeaway:
                social beliefs impact learner performance in this artifical classroom setting
                The impact of these social beliefs is present when testing subphonemic contrasts, but even stronger when phonemic
                can be modulating

            Limitations:
                manipulated to teachers/students by simple
                artifical language and learning setting
            Next steps:
                are they affected by teachers age? racial group? 
                properties of participants?
                types of interaction ie.e feedback? - does this weight the teachers input more?

            Empirical evidence for social oritnation in linguistic perception and learning   

        "Automatic Speech Recognition as a Pronunciation Teaching Resource: In-Service Teachers' Perceptions" (William Gottard & Rosane Silveira):
            Previous Studies potential benefits:
                learners autonomy
                limitless practice and feedback
                objective evaluation
                self-study
                oral production
                reduced Anxiety
                enjoyment

            Instruments:
                background questionnairre
                Survey
            
            Intervention:
                prununciation teaching workshop presented asrbased pronunciation tasks

            Methods:
                12 participants:
                    -inservice english teachers
                        4 in public, 6 in private 2 in both

                Workshops

            Data Collection Timeline
                Participant recruitment over email/soc.media
                background questionairre over google Forms
                2-3hours zoom Workshops
                then survey over google Forms

            RQ1:
                Teacher development needs
                ASR accessibility
                ASR affordances
            RQ2:    
                . . .

            Workshop:
                designed 7 activities which use ASR
                Used Google Translate becuase it is free/accessible, and well-known in BRazil

            What are in-wervice english teacher's perceptions of AASR
                Teacher Development Needs:
                    teach pronunce. often and confidently
                    use digital resources often and confidently
                    DO NOT USE ASR OFTEN OR confidently
                        After workshop - yes; would use ASR to teach pronunciation and to improve their own pronunciation
                            83% want more in teaching techniques ; 75% want more instruction in digital resources ; 
                ASR Accessibility:
                    9.3 on likert scale that it is easy to use GoogleTranslate ASR and that their students have access to Google Translate
                ASR Affordances:
                    high ratings that:
                        asr helps teach
                        students would be interested
                        i would use asr as a tool
                        asr can encourage/motivate learners to practice outside the transfprort
                        asr is beneficial to learners development

                    They would use asr for:
                        -self study, out of class supplement, in-class resource, self-assesment
                
                (RQ2)
                How do teachers perceive:
                    chappelle 2001 criteria

            Favorite activities:
                vowel contrast
                pronuncation self assesment
                tongu tuisters
                roleplay 
                . .. 


        "Exploring Chilean pre-service teachers' reactions to lecturers under different face/voice conditions" (Masatoshi Sato, Kim McDonough, Rachael Lindberg, Sadie Cazorla . . .):
            Socially-Cnsturcted Biases:
                Face:
                    people excpect speech patterns
                    Reverse linguistic stereotyping: impressions of speech characteristics, qualifications, interpersonal characteristics
                        Kang Rubin 09
                accent  
                    form first impressions of people
                    linguistic stereotyping
                Native Speakerism
                    idealization of Native. Speakers
                    L2 speaker teachers may face limited opportunities or negative evaluations
                        based on accent or appearance

            Context in Chilean
                homogeneous in race and foreign accents
                majority of english teachers are chilan with spanish as L1
                how will preservice teachers react to teachers face and voice?
                    less diversity > greater bias? Or will training to be a teacher reduce bias?

            RQ1:
                how do chilean preservice efl teachers react under differnt face/voice conditions
            RQ2
                do thair ratings change from pre to post?

            44 University students in teacher EFL program
                All spanish speaking
            Sampled to get 4 30sec lectures like an intro to psych/education
            Four face/voice pairings
                (White , Chinese) x (L1 English, L2 English)
                Lecture preceded by name, photo, brief cv of instructor
                4 unique presentation orders

            Rating scales (100pts)
                This is a good teacher 
                I would like this person as my teacher
                This teacher will be / is easy to understand
                This teach will have / has a strong accent`

            Procedure:
                Review picture/cv - rate - listen see picture - rate again

            Afftected by pairing? Did the ratings change before vs after?

            Good teacher
                ChineseL1 = WhiteL1 > WhiteL2 > ChineseL2
            I would like this teacher:
                ChL1 > WhL1 > ChL2 = WhiteL2
            Easy to understand:
                ChL1 > WhL1 > ChL2 = WhiteL2
            strong accent
                ChL1 = WhL1 ; ChL1 < ChL2 = WhL2 ; WhL1 < . . .

            Voice:
                Prefer L1 voices
            Faces:
                Little difference in white vs Chinese
                slight preference for chines in L1 conditional

            Difference before _> after?
                WhL1
                    No significant difference
                WhL2
                    down in all except up in strong accent
                ChL1
                    up in all except down in strong accent
                ChL2
                    down in all except slight up in strong accent

                Consistent before ratings for all four faces, 
                    no negative or positive perceptions based on face
                . . .

            No downgrading based on face, 
            but preference for L1 voices

            Interesting positive comments about ChL1 speaker
                was there actually a difference in the voice?
                or jsut because of surprise hearing the l1 voice with the chinese face

            Moving forward:
                exposure to more accented speeches beyond their own
                legitimization of accented speeches
                engagement with research findings
                create community of practices 
                    online interaction with more l2 english speakers
                    esl teacher communitey

        "Meaningless Parrot-Like practice or an effective technique? Shadowing as a method of L2 pronunciation progress" (Ewa Kusz - University of Rzesz'ow, Zoe Zawadzki & Kate Challis *--Iowa State University):
            Shadowing: a paced, auditory tracking task which invomves the immediate vocalisation of auditorialy presented stimuli
                dates to 1953

            RQ1:   
                to what extend does it help l2 polish speakers conprehensibility, fluency, accentedness
            @:
                what is the relationship between motivation and c, f, A
            . . .
            . . .

            Involves manyc coordinated processes
                simlutaneous linear task
                show to improve phonemic awareness

            L1 unkranian speakers learning L2 polish
                both slavic but not mutually intelligible

                different vowels, more palatalizations in poslish
                penultimate stress in polish, but variable stress in unkranian

            Methods:
                15 Ukranians, 7 in control group and 8 in experimental roup
                    survey to measure motivation: 40 questionss for why they want to learn polish, how imporant it is, long term plans to stay in poland

                shadowing task: 4 weeks 8 meetings
                    15 minute practice twice a weeks
                    pronunciation was rated by 9 L1 polish speakers

            Results:
                very positive attitudes toward learning polish
                all want to sound native
                "my pronunciation of polish makes others hard to udnerstanda me"
                learning polish is difficult, but I can do it
                i need to leafrn to get a job, but it is hard to find a better jocb
                they want to learn to stay in poaland
                Spread out on "I avoid speaking polish because of my accent"
                all want to speak better
                the proununciation is different and very different from my mothre tongue
                sperad on "my accent makes poles treat me wordse than other polish speakers"

                .54 interrater reliability (moderate reliability)

        "The functional load of Brazillian Portuguese phonemes and implications to teaching (Mariana Centanin-Bertho - University of Arizona):
            Making Portuguese Learners available in corpus
                -based on a similar useful resource in English  
                    -can you make the same implications and Assumptions
            
            Dissertation is on pronunciation of English Spanish billigual learners of Portuguese as a third language
                Acoustic similarity may play a bigge role than inventory size in L2 perception
                    because Iberian SPanish speakers could more easily adapt than Australian Enslish speakers

                Most portuguese learners at University of Arizona are already Spanish-English Bilinguals

                Studies show influence from Spanish (whether ES is L1 or 2) 
                    supporting Typological Primacy MOdel 

                Functional Load: quantification of the amont of work elements from a linguistic class do in the language   
                    e.g., high-front and reduced vowels are used more often in the lexicon than any other vowels in english, and thus do more work
                
                Gilner & Morales 2010
                    Functional Load in English

                    10K most frequent unlemmatized words from the spoken subcorpus of the British National corpus
                    phonetic transcription of each item
                    all segments in the list of items transcripted became the dataset
                    determine  the cound of each segments
                    most frequent has 1
                    everything else has proprortion relative 
                            > zipfian ?

                This Owkr
                    C-Oral-BRasil
                        Raso Mello 12
                    
                    13K unlemmatuzed items (excluding proper nouns)
                    transcriped using marquiavel 2010 (Petrus automatic grapheme to phoneme)

                    /s/ has highest FL=1
                    /j/ has lowest

                    vowels only:
                    /a/ to /3/

                    difficult to diffeentiate /e/ /i/ are close
                                    also      /o/ /u/
                                    but       /e/ /3/ are on opposite sides

        "Relationship between Connected Speech Process and Utterance Fluency in L1 and L2 Read Speech" ()Jimin Kahng, Abner Tian Zhang -- University of Mississippa):
            Fluency:
                Lennon 90
                    global speaking proficiency

                    cognitive fluency : efficiency of underlying cognitive processes
                    utterance fulency:
                    perceived fluency
                
                Speed: articulation reate, mean syllable duration
                Breakdwon: frequency, length, location, of pauses
                Repair: frequency of corrections. . .
                Others:
                    Tavakoli Hunder 18:
                        very narrow : speed breakdown, Repair
                        narrow:     ease, flow and continuity, discstinct from accuracy and complexity
                        broad: L2 speaking ability
                        very broad: master / general proficiency
                Cononected speech is one aspect of suprasegmentals and has been linked to L2 understanding. Perceived as more natrual friendly personal and sympathetic. 
                Has a significant accentuation role

                Increase in speaking rate is associated with greater overlap of gestures for adacent segmentsconnected speech is one of the ways to realize unstressed syllables. More unstressed syllables ruesult in faster sppeecchhe

                Research Questions:
                    1. are there differences in the frequency of connected speech processes in read English speech produced by native English speakers an d L1 Chienses L2 English speakers
                    2 . . .
                
                Methods
                    Participants:
                        44 ChL1 EnL2 from an Illinois University
                        Mostly intermediate learners of English
                    
                    Materials and Procedure read the passage of Weinberger's speech accent archive
                    one minute to look at th epassage before reading and read at their own pace. Their speech was recorded using Praat

                    Features:
                        Mean syllable duration
                        Breakdown measures (number of silent pauses and filled pauses within a clause and between clauses)
                        number of repetitions and correctionspause location, filled pauses, repetitions and corrections were identified and annotated manually on the text grid wbased on the waveform spectrogram information on Praate/ 

                        connected speech processes:
                            linking ask_her xiz_spoons_of
                            deletion (ask'er)
                            reduction (unreleased consonant, schwa)
                
                Results:
                    l2 speech slower with more disfluencies
                    linking, reduction, deletion are not highly correlated, no milticollinearity
                    significant negative relationships between linking and mean sullable duration 
                    significant negative relasitonship between reduction and mean sullable duration

                    linking reduction and deletion not highly correlatedsignificant negative relationsihp between linking and mean syllable duration and mid clause silent pausessignificant . . .
                    . . .

                    linking and reduction explain 48 percent of variabance
                    mdan syllable duration 21

            "Eyebrow raising and Lexical Stress Perception in L2 Spanish (Sebastian Leal-Arenas & Amanda Huensch -- University of Pittsburgh):
                Stress - relative emphasis in a syllable
                    lexical - particular to a word

                    en record vs record
                    es yo hablo vs ella habl'o

                    difficulties for English l2 : change in vowel quality also, not just stress
                    perception and language proficience French/English-Spanish interface:
                        learners less accuragte than Spanish monolinguals
                        advanced learners are not better than betginners - inabliity to create phonological representations
                        exposure: L2 learners are more accurate than French / English monolinguals
                    Linguistic factors:
                        position in sentence
                        tense
                        vowels

                    Acoustic features are different in English / Spanish
                        features outisde of acoustic domain
                        articulatory movements of lips jaws and tongue
                        upper part of head: head and eyebrow movements
                        gap: results on l1 populations and prasal stress
                        Gap: perception oin non germanic languages

                    Experiment 1:
                        RQ1 : to what extendt are participants capable of perceiving lexical stress w and wo ebebrow raising
                                how does this relate to reaction times
                        RQ2:
                            to what extend to es the factors of position tense and vowel quality influence the perception of lexiacal stress accomapained by eyebrow raising and relcation times


                    Ex2:
                        . .. .

                    Methods:
                        60 uni students taking spanish language courses
                            diverse proficiency
                        
                        tasks:
                            sociolinguistic backtroupnd
                            language proficiency test3 perception tasks
                            feedback Survey

                            (at own time and convenience viea qualtrics)

                        Uaw mwmojia ro ewpewawnr dXIl mocwmwnr
                        nARAKEEt text to speech to avoid pitch variations (Sierra 2018)
                        adobe premier pro to merge audio and memoji

                            watch and listen to the memoji utter a sentence and press the sentence you hear
                            variables:
                                eyebrow raising
                                position
                                stress

                        Task 2 : match vs mismatch eyebrow raising


                    Results RQ1:
                        no eyebrow : .627 accuracy
                        yes : .899 
                        significant imrpveomvent

                    Linguistic Factors:
                        only significant variable was tense/present (reaction times not significant)

                    rq3 cue weighting:
                        only significant was when it was matched

                    rq4: how participants learned these differences:
                        23% said they wer note explicitly, and those who were were in a grammar way or in a tex
                        80% noticed no patterns in memoji movement patterns
                            but noticed the eyebrows moved, that the lips didint move much, some thought it moved more

                    Discussion:
                        extra linguistic factors can support perception

                        Pedagogical implications
                            improve perception training
                            individual training or flipped classroom

                        Future research:
                            prolonged study / interventions
                            compare l1 / l2 perception
                            explicit training

                    Quesitons:
                        - did this cause them to rely too much on the nonlinguistic cue?
                        did they not notice the eyebrow movement because they were too busy looking at the options to select

        "Portuguese vowel contrasts are more precisely lexically encoded for learners with greater orthographic awareness" (Hunter Brakovec & Isabelle Darcy --Indiana University):
            Lexical encoding of difficult L2 contrasts remains a mistery
                have difficulty encodeing
                    pallier etal 01
                    cutler etal 06
                even whenthey can perceive  
                    darcy ea 13, daidone 20
                orthography hh barios 21

            Mixed effects of orthography
                beneficial
                    escudero 08 ; showalter hh 13
                neutral
                negative

                studies don't use experienced

            Portugueuese

                phonemic distinction between close and open for front and back vowels

                English learners have difficulty in perception and production
                    despite mapping to separate english categories
                    spelling may be a factor if they ignore accents

                    circumflex indicates close, acute indicates open
                    but unacceted is unpredictable and lexically based

            RQs:
                are learners aware of the role and position of accent marks in Portuguese
                    metalinguistic accent marking task
                        predict variation
                are they able to perceive the sets of mid vowels
                    phonological ax task
                        predict they should be able to use L1 categories
                do they use the accent mark information to encode vowel quality precisely
                    lexical decision task
                        predict: higher wawareness + knowledge of accent marks > higher accuracy

            Method:
                20 L1 and L+ BP speakers

            AX 
                word, babble word
            Lexical Decision Task:
                is this a word or not
                    L1s scored well overall, but lowset in Target-Contast condition (changing across the vowel contrast)
                    L2s scored decently high in all, but 20% !! in target contrast

                    between groups, they score significantly (but only slightly) higher when  orthography is present with accent marks
            Accent Marking and Metalinguistic Knowledge about accent marks task was performed by L+ speakers only
                
            Why are even the best learners bad at the lexical encodoing?

            Teaching implications:
                orthographic awareness helps lexical encoding
                so there should be teaching in classroom
                but it cant do anything

            the role ofaccnent marks is small but shows a larger effect in those groups which have high awareness

            "The effects of pronunciation instruction on L2 learner perception in Spanish: DOes instruction affect perception" (Heather M Offerman - University of Arkansas):
                Based on a production study

                Literature Review:
                    Perception/Production:
                        often assumed that perception precedes production

                        zampini 98 
                            found that learners were able to use short tmer memory to rememere production

                        Sleech learning model flege 95
                            longer an l2 eanrlnr is exposed to l1 the harder it becomes to get l2 categories
                    
                    Explicit instruction : use IPA instead of graphemes

                        Lord 2010 Miller 2012

                        repetitions and modeling yoshinda fukada 2014
                        explicit corrective feedback 
                            saito lyster 2012

                        visual feedback to display visual represntation useing sound waves and spectrograms

                            offerman olson 2016 olson 14 olson offerman 21

                        combination instruction
                            kartushina

                    Target features:
                        VOT and aspiration

                Perceptua l stassk
                    AxB


                Research Question:
                    Does pronunciationinstruction improve perception for discrimination skills?
                    Does pronunciation instruction improve perceptual social category iassignation measured through a nativeness judgement task

                Methods
                    Participatmns
                        45
                        intermediate - 3rd semester spanish University
                        L1 of EN, L2 of ES

                        Grpushs
                            Explicit instruction
                            visual feedback
                            cmbination instruction
                            control

                        Task 
                            AxB

                            nativeness rating:
                                aspirated vs non-aspirated

                        Pronunciation interventions
                            EI
                                IPA symbols to demonstrate differences
                                also differences in place and manner of articulation
                                exercises
                            VF
                                after pretest, took part in activity
                                guided questions to analyze their own productions and native speaker productions
                                    how does your spectrogram look different from those of a native speaker
                            CI
                                EI + VF, but with explicit description of why there are VF differences in the specrrogram

                Results:
                    Discrimination: no groups improved significantly
                        They were all already at ceiling
                    
                    Nativeness judgement task   
                        all three experimentla group improved
                            but control group went down, so actually only cI group increasesd

                Theoretical Implications:
                    Noticing hypothesis:
                        when a learners attention is drawn to a pseicic form, they are more likely to acquire it
                        scmhmidt 90 92

                    Learner modalities
                        baran lucarz

                Pedagogical implications
                    no percetpual improvement, ut it is important to test other phonemic features
                        it could be that they associated unaspirated [p] with [b]
                            best 94 scobbie 06

                Limitations and future research
                    not large number of particiapngets
                    
                    Considered exploratory (huensch nagle 21
                    
                    delayed posttest saito plonsy 19
                        but very few participated

                Fiturue research:
                    examine on vowesl?
                    investigate on a variety of L2s

        "Effects of awareness-raising activities on bottom-up processing of world Englishes pronunciation" (Katsuya Yokomoto - sophia university, Aki Tsunemoto, kansai university, Yui suzukida - . . .univeristy)
            Importance of teaching different varieties of english
                lingua franca
                use of l2 users > use by L1

            Pressing need for l2 users to enhance thier processing of varieties of english
                for language educationto incorprate iunderstanding, 

            Processing of accented english:
                topdown : existing knowledge : association of contett and speech Theme
                bottom up : 
                    segmentation of connected speech, detecting segmental and superse   features

                difference in lingusitic distance and familiatiyr with faeriety
                    LD : bent bradlow 03 stibbard lee 06 orikasa 16 . . .
                    familiiarity : adank 09, gass varonis 84 matuura 07, shin etal 21

                1CLASSROOM INSTRUCTION should

            lANGUAGE EDUCATION:
                LIMITED NUMBERSS of studies have used dialugues between l2 users, wtched videso ie ted talks, or Reading articles about world Englishes
                    Lee 12 oren 17 rajani na aythay sitthitikul 16

                Guided awareness-raising activiteis might help?

            RQ
                whether and to what extent could guided awareness raising activites assist efl learners to process l2 speech accurately?

            Method
                parrticipants
                    52 japanese students B1 english

                    Pre/post tests
                        dictation of ko, ch, in - accented english
                        stimuli played 3 times with 20 sec interval

                    pretest on all three 
                    Treatment:
                        w1 awareness raising activities on koren OR ono Sustatinbalbe development goal 1
                        2 chinese OR sdg 2
                        3 indian nOR sdg 3

                        Two 100 minute classes, guided awareness-raising activiteis
                            academic articles, phonological characteristics, short video clips, 
                            discussing possible difficulties with bottum up processing at the end of the two Sessions

                    Analysis:
                        scores for correctly transcriped words

                    Results:
                        Significant improvement for all languages in experimental group ! ! !
                        surprisingly also significant improvement to korean accented language for control group

                    Positive impact of instruction!
                        derwing 02 kissling 18
                    Learning typical segmental and spereasegmental featrues raised awareness
                        vandergrift baker 15
                    increased familiarity with L2 english

                    Korean and Hinese accented was better understood and improved than indian accented
                        consistent with previous linguistic distance findings
                            hashimoto 17 orikasa 16
                        interlanguage speech intelligibility ?
                            bent bradlow 03
                        greater familiarity with ch/ko speech
                            adank 09
                    Control group became better at comprehending koreean accented speeck
                        unknown why

                    Implications
                        teachers may intruduce activities in the classroom
                        choose a variety of english that students will likely encounter
                        read papers illustrating unique characteristics of the target language variety
                        students discuss and predict what phonological characteristics may interefere with Communication
                        watch a short clip to demonstrate the phonologyical characteristics of targert veraitey

                Limitations and Future Directions:
                    -included many activities, which were specifically helpful
                    can students comprehend a longer stretch of utterance or interact with an L2 accented speaker ? OR only the short dictation task

        "Effects of Peer Phonemic Drills on Edem Igbo Children's Pronnciation of English Words with Alveolar Lateral" (Ruth Ihedigbo & Evelyn Mbah):
        "How do immigrants perceive each other's heritage language? Examining the perceptions of Canada- and Vietnam- born speakers in a dyadic conversation" (Thao-Nguyen Nina Le, Pvel Trofimovich, Kim McDonough & Masatoshi Sato):
            . . .
            Co-Ethnic Conflicts:
                "I think my partner likes my heritage language skills"

            Belonging Gap vs Heritage Language gap "Do they accept me into the ethnic community" vs "Do they like my heritage language skills"


            RQ:
                Is there a sence of belonging and/or a heritage language cap among canada-born and newcomer
                . . .

            23 pairings - encouraged to speak vietnamese as much as possible
                introduced for 5 minutes
                    asked about hobbies, travel, etc
                interaction perception questionaire:
                    how they feel about thier partner vs how they feel about me
                return to discussion room to talk about challenges each person helped, advice for each other, bonding activity

            Data Analysis:  
                compare metaperception (what I think my partner thinks about me) against rating (what my partner thinks about me);
                    after intro vs after activity
                    introduction vs discussion
                    heritage speaker vs newcomer

            is there a sense of belonging or heritage language gap:
                no interaction effects, only main
                    NO BELONGING GAP
                    HERITAGE LANGUAGE GAP
                    RATINGS INCREASED FROM INTRO TO DISCUSSION

            is choice of lenghuatge associated with metaperception?
                Not for newcomers
                but HL thought the more they used vietnamese, the more they thought the newcomers would accept them, intensified even more after discussion

            Limitiations and Future directions:
                small sample size
                encouraging participants to speak vietnamese may have influenced their association
                data collection in montreal where it was more politicized. COuld have been more neutralized in , say vancouver
                only had one immigration/heritage background and only two levels, there could be more nuance
                        
        "Phonetic Training for novel category perception and orthographic learning: Relative gains of low- and high-variability for beginners of German" ()John H G Scott - University of Calgary Universtity of maryland , Sadi E Phillips - Indiana University Bloomington, Juan Z. J. Lim - Universit . . .:

            Perspectives on the landscape:
                category perception in l2
                orthography in L2   
                    what is the place of novel grapheme phoneme correspondencies
                Perceptual Training
                    input intervention aimed at warping the perceptual sympathetic
                    hvpt sussenbach 23, thomson 18

                    Very few studies compare high vs low Variability Phonetic Training
            
            This study
                first l2+ german study of 
                    orthographic learning, 
                    lvpt vs hvpt
                    naive prelearners vs novice l2 learners
                    interaction of category
                    Lisa sussenbach's thesis on aural vs aural +visual hvpt

            Participants
                Groups:
                    HVPT - heard 4 voices total
                    lvpt - heard multiple tokens from one voice
                    control

            Stage 1 background questionaire
            stage 2 pretest spelling tests
            Stage 3 training - nonword oddity w/ feedback
                4hrs over 2 days
                    1her cononants and 1hr vowels
            Stage 4 Post test 1
                5th voice
                spelling test
            Stage 5 post test 2
                v1-v3 + v6
                spelling test on new and unfamiliar words

            Grapheme-Phoneme correspondencies
            novel words were selected to match graphotactics

            Spelling scores by Damerau-Levenshtein distance:
                edit distance / # of letters in the larger of the output and target word

            All learners improve spelling with familiar words
            l- and h- vpt generalsize spelling to novel words
            lvpt spells best ?
            . . .

            /u/ vs /y/ is better for pre-learners than L2+ (attention to phonetic detail)
            lvpt performed better in short term, hvpt exceed Lateral
            untrained group performes lower or on par with lvpt group post tests
            spelling clearly improves with famililiar vocabulary
            lvpt and hvpt groups generalize to novel words

            Planned Analyses:
                clean up outliers and trim improbably casse for impossible short reaction times

                mixed effects
                    consonant vs vowel condiionns

                    familiar vs novel voices
                    account for l2 french / l3 germann

                

                coding of D-L distance for specific target sounds within words
                code for permissible alternative german Graphics
                cross reference results with pre-test l1 spelling performance and self-reported reading disabilities
                integrate oral oddity data and spelling data

            
            connections:
                Theory:
                    how are phonological and orthographic domains connected in l2+
                    beginning l2 learners is hvpt too taxing? is lvpt abetter for early on
                        Mitterer Mattys 17 Strange 11
                    Instruction
                        attention to perception and orthography, not just alphabets
                        phonotactics for speech sounds and Graphics
                    Equity
                        l1 and previos l2s are important for both sounds and orthography
                        how can we better serve l2+ learners with dyslexia or disgraphi

            referenceS 
                Hayes-Harb escudero 

        "Exploring how production during perception trainin affects the perceptual learning of English /l/-/r/ by L1 Japanese Learners" (Ruri Ueda - The Australian National University):
            Perceptual Training
                Effects on perception
                    helsp learn difficult l2 phonemes
                        iverson evans 09 nishi kewley-port 07 lively 91
                effects on production
                    improves ability
                        bradlow 97 99 shinohara iverson 18
                    not effective 
                        alinga garcia mora 09 hwang l33 . . .
                    . . .
            Production Training
                Types:
                    lecture style instructions
                    asrvisual displaces
                    waveform and spectrogram
                Effects on Perception

            Perception- and production mixed training
                disrupted perceptual learning of thai tokens

                no disruption but no extra benefit

                    Thorin et al vs Baese Berk Samuel 16

                Mixed findings due to need ?

            
            This study
                investigate effects of production during perceptual training on l2 perceptual learning

            RQ
                does perceptual training using identification improve perception
                . . .

            Participants
                L1 japanese
                undergrad in japan , non -english majors

                l-r target contrast

                Groups
                    production - first
                    production - last
                    perception -only

                Identification Training
                    perc_only: none
                    prod-f : repeated a stimulus right after hearing it
                    prod - l : produced after stimulus questionaire

            Analysis
                logistic mixed effects model for all stimuli:
                    binary accuracy score, tiem, group, s. . .


            Discrimination task result:
                no significant interaction, main effect of time
            Identification task results:
                significant interaction between time and group
                perc increased their score

            rq1:
                YES The perc only signivicantly improed their discrimination and identification scores
                the learning was generalized to a new voice for identification but not to new words
            rq2:
                does production during perceptual training disrupt l2 phonemic perceptual learning
                yes, perc improved identification significantly more than prod-first and prod-last groups

                    This was a more difficult contrast (single-category assimilation vs category goodness) than thorin 18
                However, although the prodfirst did not improve their identification accuracy, their discrimination score increased
                    learners prior experience with the target language might alleviate disruption to perceptual learning
                    disruption might have been alleviated in the current study

        "Influence of abstract phonological process in the acquisition of languages" (. . .):
        
            RQ 
                Do speakers whose L1 has a rule targeting a word final segment, do their learning diverge from learners whose l1 does not have such a rule?

                Lexical representation - form stored in long term memory
                    assume that ilexical representations consist of distinctive and nonpredictable features
                    abstract rules applied to arrive at output phonetic form

            Rules
                Word final devoicing in German
                    has been argued to be of spread glottis 
                        iverson salmons 99 07 jessen ringen 02
                Word final voiced stop sin spanish undergo lenition/spirantization
                    become more continuant
                    changes in duration and degree of openness 
                    (also happens intervocalic)
                English - no comparable phonological process


            Challenges
                orthography can interefere
                    barrios hh 20

                deneutralization
                    port crawford 89 p280
                
                can leat to accentedness/

            CURRENT STUDY:
                focus on processes targeting wordfinal segments,
                    specifically word final /d/

                participants    L1      L2
                                De      es
                                es      de
                                en      es
                                en      de

                Most L1 german speakers are Multilingualism

            Task:
                target word repetition:
                    listen to a sentence in the target language and anser a quesstion requireing about the target word, which was at the end of the sentence
                    use real words , with recordings done by an L1 speaker
            
                nonce word repetition:
                    following phonotactic restirction of a language , same set up as task 1

            analysis:
                glottal pulsing, aspiration
                impressionistic judgements
                0 elision; q fricative/aproxemant 2 voiceless stop 3 voiced stop

            results
                not super clear (only 3 in each group`)

                slight tendency that precence of rules inl1 can have a positive effect on the learner

                    es-de
                        84.4% rule application 

                    when was rule not applied:
                        l1 spanish to lenite or elide, english to voice

                        lq german more consistnent in nonce word task, l1 more consistent application of the rule

            condlucionss
                tendency for learners to apply phonolocigal rules of l2 if they ahve an l1 reule targeting the same segment
                not clear when it comes to linguistice trasnfer if there is a heirarchy that infleces a learners awareness

            future work:
                do other languages of the particiapnt impact the acquisition of phonological rules?

        
        "Monitoring students' behavior during autonomous Automatic Speech Recognition based pronunciation practice" (Solene Inceoglu - Australian National University, Wen-Hsin Kelly Chen - National Central University Taiwan, Hyojung Lim, Kwangwoon University South Korea):
            CALL and ASR
                provide personalized instuction kessler 18
                autonomous practice in and out the classroom reinders 18
                asr has given opprtunities for self regulated oral practice cucchiarini 09

                Mixed results 
                    mixed out come may be due to learners' l1, l2 proficiency, learning setting (esl v efl) . . .

                positive perceptions
                    autonomous practice mccrocklin 15
                    immediate feedback inceoglu 22 liakin 18
                    sense of iteliligibility

                frustation
                    slow,
                    technical difficulties
                    mistrust

            CALL
                Limitations
                    ability to not see what learners actually do fisher 07 12

                    tracking data

                        screen recording w or wo audio, w eyetracking
                            focus on learners attiontion while they are engaged in a learning activite or think aloud protocols to explore metacognitive processes
                            dfifficulties associated with recording and subsequently storing recordings
                    

                        what monitoringr eveals
                            they do not alwyas use call programs as teachers researchers expect chun 13 fisher 12 hwu 03

                            large variability in startegey organization, dilleicence

                            implications for evaluating program effectiveness and learner autonomy
        
            RESEARCH questions:
                what are types and proporions of pronunciations pracitce epicosed during autonomous asr based training?
                How is learners' behavior related to self reported motimvation and pronunciation attitudes

            Method:
                46 taiwanese efl learners early
                6 sessions of asr based dictation practice as homework
                    short reading passage
                    six sort sentences
                    individual words targeting i~I 3~ae
                    submit recording, also questionaires before and after

                coding
                    learners production of target word 
                        -> Missing
                        -> technical issues
                        -> correct (might be that a listener would have heard something else)
                        -> incorrect asr does not recognize target word
                            -> ignore (learner disregards asr output moves to next word)
                            -> success (learner successfully produces the target word)
                            -> fail (user tries again, but never accomplishes the success)
                
                results and discussion
                    correct : 20 slight turpulent improvemtn20 - 25, max 30 min 15
                    incorrect_ignore : decrease over sessions20 - 10 
                    incorrect sugccess : 22-26 , nearly familiatiyr
                    incorrect_fail : turbluent flat 30 max 40 min 25
                    tech issue: turpulent flat low 5 max 10 min 0
                    missing flat low 5

                    The proportion of cases where learners subsequent attempts were unsuccessful was always greater than the proportion where they ended up successful


                    30 learners disregarded at least one, 5 learners disregarded all 


                    Successful after 4.9 attempts on Average 5.9
                    still unsuccessful after on average 6.4

                    higher pre pronunciation attitude were associated with lower percentages of ignored episodes !
                            higher percentages of corrected episodes
                            higher number of attempts to correct an intially unsuccesful trasncriptions

                    pre ideal l2 self scores were associated with lower numbers of attempts that led to successful transfrictosin
                    post out to seflf scores linkned to higher numbers of attemptes that remained ultimately unsuccessful

            limitations:
                screen recordings : huge volume of information not analyzed
                    potential for shedding light on learners engagement

                    different strategies emplyed by learners attempting to produce the target word
                        i.e. listen to a model or online dictionary or give each other feedback in groups
                    affective engagement
                        feelings and emotions about various aspects of l2 learning process pawlak kruk 22 p43

            future studies:
                could emply stimulated recalls:
                    why did you skip? why did you try 42 times?
                    did you disagree with asr and know yours is correct
                probe further into motivation:


            questions:
                maybe asr will get to a point where it can learn and update from rejected
                in this particular study, there was no change in production , but for other ones ist does

                defense lnaguage institue asr gives phoneme output if it can't map the utterance to a known word

Teaching Tips:
    Using ChatGPT
        use asr + chatgpt + text 2 speech
        generate practice activities
        generate long lists of minimal pairs
        practice to define terms for exams

    Engaging Graduate Students in Prosody Practice with Facutly Interviews (Ana Modlawa-Shetty - Yale)
        
        Teaching Prosuty with Faculty Interviews Rationsale:
            create meaning ful opportunities for students tho share/discuss research
            finding good modles can be challenging (3-minute thesis, TED)
            ! ! ! MacMillar Report - open source one-on-one interview show featuring facutly discussing their research

            Listen to host:
                listen to prof. response:
                    how do they start?
                    what do they say next?
                    divide her response into smaller subsections based on the purpose they serve.
                        research topic, previous researchthe gapresearch topic more specifically
            
                like to see the relevance:

                structure / vocabulary:
                    we : do all instances have the same functional
                    highlight any phrases you like or would like to use when presenting:

                mark pauses and thought groups, focus stress, etc.

                look at pitch patterns during transitions. 

                shadowing

    "Raising awareness of new information placemtn:
        english speaksers use prominence and voice pitch to acall attention to most important information:
            this can shift, most of the time it is at the the end.

            even within words i.e.  "known and 'un known"

        improtant for percieving what somebody intends to communicative


        New v old invormation

        exercises on yellow papers

        youglish
            collection of youtube videos that is searchable by words and phrases
        


    "Using autogenerated captions for feedback on segmental pronunciation"
        asr-based pronunciatino activities:
            most are synchronous with dictiaon method
                drawbacks:
                    frustration,
                    lack of authenticity as students slow down or overenunciate
            !ASYNCHRONOUS
                read a dialogue and record, then upload it to Kaltura media sympathetic

                chack the auto generated captions by going to caption & enrigh -> closed captions generator

                think about why they were errores

            Benefits for students:
                motivation (less frustrating)
                on other assignments, they will voluntarily use it even if they are not required to

                2. self monitoring (so stil upside)

            benefit for instructor:
                window into their meta cognition.
                    i.e. student picked up that it was a stress issue instead of a segmental issue

            limitations:
                error in the captioning software
                false negative

                errors were more frequent with proper nouns
                and word final consonant clusets

                homophones

                background noise affects the quality

                kaltura captions gives a confidence level for the captions, but make it clear that these are not a rating of the pronunciationinstruction

    "Podcasting projects for incontext phonetics learning
        original recording and then respond to a classmate


        task:
            read paragraph
            describe picture
            varous other activities

        tips/ways to edit the project
            control on spanish class
            experimental condition nin phonetics class.

            phonetics class liked it more

            change the groups? maybe

            now it is into their own podcasting class 

            allyssa martoccio @ ucdenver education

    "Using English - Japanese congnates to enhanse Japanese pronunciation of segments, long-vowels, consonants, phonotactics, pitch accent, and phonological processes in Japanese as an additional language

        Why congnates
            lowers cognitive load enambe learners to focus on pronunciation 
                segments, 
                supersegmentals
                    more timing, special moras, semgent lenge pitch accetn . . .
                phonotactics
                processes 
                . . .
        
        teaching framework:
            cognates can be easily integreated into pronuncation focused task based learning

        pitch accent generally falls on the third to last, not necesarily in the same place where

        special moras
            long vowels
            geminates
            moraic nasal
            palatalized sounds
            devoiced vowels

    "Using Audiovisual Materials to Teach Pronunciation" (Ines Martin - United States Naval Academy, Carolin Jolitz - The Pennsylvania State)
        captioned video
            visualize the speech stream and help learners identify individuaul words
                charles trenkic 2015

            simultaneous can strengtthen link
                wisniewska mora 20

        expicit pronunciation instruction - video viewing - controlled practice -communicative pracitce

        explicit pronunciation  
            why is this so difficult to pronounces
            what do learners need to pay close attention to
            why is it important

        video viewing
            suggest split into two parts
            1. focus on content, comprehension questions, etc
            2. focus on pronunciation

            give word bank to see what words to look for

            ** Deutsche Welle learngerman

        Controlled Practice Phase
            use the resources to focus on the pronuncation
            give them the word bank again or the entire transcript of the video

        Communicateive practice
            now the focus is no longer just on pronunciation, but rather to use them in Communication

            roleplay
                continue the one from video

        

        German: Nicos Weg learngerman.dw.com/de/nicos-weg/c-36519687
        edpuzzle.com/discover
        go.playposit.com
