"Natural Categories" Maitrey Presentation


e.g. Birds:
    lays eggs, fly, wings, feathers, beak/bill
    think of typical category members eg robin sparrow pigeon

Classical Theory of categorization:
    list of necessary and sufficient condition, 
    well defined boundaries
    categorial membership is digital and equal

But, do all natural categories follow this theory?
    {Kiwi, Ostrich, Penguin} \in Birds, but not \in fly
    -> Graded membership
    "some birds are "birdier' than other birds"

    "Prototypical" birds are birdiest

PROTOTYPE theory    
    members are defined by familiar resemblance to prototypical members
    prototypical members have characteristic features, rather than defining properties

Characteristics of a prototype category:
    CANNOT BE DEFINED BY A SINGLE SET OF CRITERIA "WE HAVE ARGUED THAT MANY WORDS  . . . have their meanings not a list of necessary and sufficient conditions that a thing or event must satisfy . . . . . "
    Semantic structure is in the form of a radial set of clustered and overlapping meanings
        prototypical members are found in the maximally overlapping area
    Exhibit degrees of category membership
    Have blurred edges

Categories and Prototypes vary over time and across cultures

Book: "Through the language glass", "the unfolding of language" by guy deutscher


NLP follows both charaterizations of category
    Annotations as all or nothing (Classical)
    Model outputs are distributions (Prototype)
    Annotation process is definitional (classical) but give prototypical examples (prototype)
    Bounded categorization (Classical)
    Tragets are multi-dimensional (Both)
    Category Labels can be opaque (Both) - Can we move away from categorical Labels

CATEGORY LAbels hide dissimilariteis between members (prottypical and frigne)
Can natural language serve as effective proxies?
    In the form of questions/descriptions/explanations
    natural language reveals more than just albels
    can be generated using LLMs
    Natural language allows to describe the target phenomenon in definitional
Do natural language proxies retain categorical knowledge
Can natural language proxies reveal prototypical characteristics?
    proxies can be tallied with existing labeling
    Do centers of proxy clusters reveal these characteristics

SNACS: Semantic Network of Adpositions and Case Supersense
    Genetating questions   
        1. extract the governor and the dependent of the Adpositions
            "I am talking on the phone"
                Dependents "talking`"
                Governor "the phone"
        2. Ask for question for which the answer is those noun phrases