New Grad Student Orientation

Professor Mary Hall:
    -Catmull Graphics
        *look up Hand vido on Youtube
    -make a welcoming and inclusive environment
    -Jill (advisor) and Alex Lex (Program Director)

Breakout Rooms
    "Selected Faculty Presentations":
        Luis Garcia: Cyber-physical systems and IoT security
            i.e. water treatment, power, factory
            https://lagarcia.us
            Trustworthy IoT-in-the-loop Neurosciene (a sensor suite that allows us to decode how humans ground episodic memories)
        Tom Henderson: Lane-Based Drone Traffic Management
            FAA reqires you to know trajectories of other aircraft to avoid collisions (computationally inefficient)
            Goal:   lane-based airways, UAS configuration space becomes 1D instead of 4D, allowing low-cost strategic deconfliction;
                    "air-roundabouts"
            Reuse existing traffic infrastructure for power/network and avoid flying over private spaces
            Crazyflie Drones
        Pratik Soni:
            Cryptography
            Zero-Knowledge Proofs
            "Can mutually distrustful parties meaningfully collaborate?"
    "Grad School Survival" (Vivek Srikumar):
        Thriving in grad school
        Here to be a computer scientist in training (not to take advanced classes)
        Matt Might "The Illustrated Guide to a PhD"
        Computer Scientists around the world are your peers
        Phases: "I know everything", "Maybe I don't know everything", "I know nothing", "I am an expert on some things. I may be wrong, but I'm willing to learn"
                Uninformed Excitement -> Under-informed depression -> Enlightenment
        Research must: 1. advance understanding, 2. have a chance of failure, 3. be more than writing code
        How do I do research? By trying and failing
        What is a paper? A problem, a solution strategy, or a question SUPPORTED BY EVIDENCE
        What is a thesis?   "X is novel, feasible, or useful", "X is impossible",
                       NOT: "I ran so many experiments", "I wrote so much code"...
        What could go wrong in grad school?:
            Misconduct - be consciencious, don't cheat. Cite, don't copy. Don't Ever Fabricate.
            Too much focus on grades and courses - grade_optimal = grade_minimum + epsilon (for some small value of epsilon)
                where grade_minimum is determined by program requirements, personal pride, professor advice
            Wanting to solve all the worlds problems OR Wanting to solve an unimportant problem - learn to identify what is an important problem
                Richard Hamming "You and your research" talk
            Only caring about a job at the end - you will end up learning less if this is your only focus
            Waiting for inspiration before starting to work - Read around your problem, talk to people, simplify your problem, give a talk describing where you are, write - write more - write even more
            Learning too much - focus focus focus, moderation is a virtue, don't be an eternal student
            Perfectionism - you are not perfect, nobody is - find the sweet spot in terms of effort / quality
            Not communicating - with your advisor, committee, peers
            Procastination
            Treat PhD school like school or work - it is a monastic, jealous hobby needing perseverance and tenacity
            Ignoring your committee
        You and your advisor
            You aim to produce Hard Work + Research and publications
            You will get Mentorship and Funding
        How to be a good PhD student:
            Persevere, Be tenacious, Be audacious
            Read
            Write and write and write and write and write and write and write and write and write . . .
            Learn to speak
            Capture your ideas
            Apply for fellowships***
            Master the tools of the trade (LaTeX, git, pytorch, etc . . .)
            Be healthy! Be safe! Be happy!
            Don't forget to enjoy the ride, make a small dent in the universe of knowledge, meet interesting people and make lifelong friends, watch yourself grow
    "Introducing GradSAC" (Jakob Johnson):
        goal to make grad students' life easier and better
        social events, mentorship, etc.
        undistinguished lecture series
        First meeting August 31st 5pm
    "Program Overview" (Alex Lex):
        largest cohort ever (100 MS, 60 PhD) + already 200 PhD and 133 MS, also >1600 undergrads
        Computer Scinece vs Computing degree
            Computer Science focuses on theory, systems, and hardware, governed by program director (Haitao Wang)
            Computing Program made up of distinct tracks
        What is the program like
            First, a mix of cousework and research THEN a very deep dive into research
            Try to create knowledge in papers and artifacts (programs)
            Read the handbook+faq
            Teaching Requirement of 1 semester TAing
        Timeline:
            Y1-2: identify advisor, research topic, publish first paper, complete courses and teaching requirement
            Y3: identify commitee. Do written qualifying exam. Work on second paper
            Y4:  Propose your dissertation to your committee. Then work on final paper
            Y5 Write dissertation based on ~3 papers. Defend dissertation in front of committee
            Also: make friends, attend conferences, give talks, engage in organizations, meet new people, learn to research write and present
        How to succeed:
            follow progress milestones (from handbook)
            become involved in research immediately
            work with advisors and be patient
            attend research seminars for credit or informally (you can just walk up)
   "Computer Support Info":
        support.cs.utah.edu support@cs.utah.edu
        in case of email issues use a non-KSOC
        shell.cs.utah.edu (light use)
        Email forwarding ~/.forward or ~/.procmailrc
        vpn.cs.utah.edu or vpn.utah.edu
        NAS - /home and /uusoc/res
            use csuote -h
            /uusoc/scratch is NOT BACKED UP!
        choose a secure password, do not share passwords between accounts, they will never ask for your password
        if it's not cs.utah.edu it is beyond cs IT control
        lmgtfy.com
        use port 5522 to ssh into custom network services
