What happens in an abstract clinic:
    -everyone who is submitting to a deadline, 
    -a few weeks before the deadline:
    -a few days before the clinic, post your abstracts in a google drive
    -everyone reads as many abstracts as they can and add comments
    -in the meeting, go over each paper and read all comments aloud

Nov 10 - Instead of Reading Group, paper clinic for arXiv deadline

Contrastive Decoding improves generation quality https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.09117
RECONCILE framework

Reviewing: (but all these ideas fit for writing as well)
    reviewing is service to NLP community
    it looks good on your CV
    dictates how the field will move forward, set the bar for what is a contribution
    for every paper you submit, review at least 3-4 (since that how many reviews you get), but you can also review more (because people don't keep up their end of the bargain
    
    Henry Oldenburg "the idea that one's research must survive the scrutiny of experts before it is present to the larger scientific community as worthy of serious consideration" creating the modern peer review system and the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society (the longest running scientific journal)

    Risk of arxiv model is submitting to a central place without scrutiny

    Reviewer's objective: decide whether a paper makes a sufficient contribution to the field

    How to review: (when writing, make sure all these questions are answered. This makes it easy for the reviewer
        what is the scientific contribution? Does it offer a new idea (big, little, algorithm, technique, new way to think - quite rare)
        does it implement an idea and show that it works?
        does it unite previous ideas into a larger framework? Is such a unification needed?
        what is the problem being solved? 
            is the problem worth solving? Is this goal significant?
            are there simpler solutions that the authors have missed?
            what are the limitations of the solution? Have authors identified them?
            Does the paper make any assumptions? Are these assumptions reasonable?

        can you understand the approach
            is the paper so densely written that it is impossigle to understand what is going on
            is the method valid and realizistic?
            is the approach sufficient for the problem
            if the idea is very new , does the paper present enough analysis or discussion
            don't feel bad about saying "I don't understand" in a review
        Is the paper gathering the right data to make its claim?
            if the paper is experimental , are we doing the right experiments to back thier clai
            is the paper interpreting the results coffdc
            what other experiments could make the paper's case morre dojjeett

    Read creative (readubg critically is easy)

    What is good about the paper?
        What are the good ideas? WHat are the qualities of the paper? What is their potential influence?
        Do the ideas have extensions that the authors may have missed

    The Act of Reading:
        summarize the key contribution of the paper
    
Reading:
    not a one time process
    summarize the 

    Look for how the paper adds to the body of knowledge:
        what is the intellectual contribution
        what is in the related work section?


The Reviewer's responsibilities
    Review is a service scientific community
    provide an honest and critical assessment
    (don't just say "this is the worst")
    analyze the strength and weakness of a paper
    provide suggestitions for improving the paper
    be civil: don't be rude - imagine that each one is an undergraduate submitting their first paper, and your response will decide their career
        but even if the paper is the worst thing ever, don't be rude
        They are essentially coming to you for advice

    Respect the community
        only accept to review in your areas of expertise 
        don't use it as an exercise to learn about a new topic
        do not inordinately delay reviews

    Be ethical:
        do not share manuscripts
        do not plagiarize
        disclose conflicts of interest
        keep an eye out for plagiarism, unethical research practicess
        If they use any data, where did they get it from
            i.e. web data scraping

structure of a review
    summary of the paper in your own words:
        what is the main contribution (to help those who decide)
    discussion about the paper
        lists of strengths and weaknesses (can be separated into separate section)
        questions for the authors
    minor points
        typos, things that are not critical, things that won't make or break the paper "this paper could use a round of copyediting"

acl form
appropriateness (does the paper fit in ACL 2014?) 
clarity (for the reasonably well-prepared reader, is it clear what was done and why? Is the paper well-written and well-structured?)
originality (is there novelty in the developed application or tool? Does it address a new problem or one that has received little attention? Alternatively, does it . . . )
implementation/soundness (has the application or tool been fully implemented or do certain parts of the system remain to be implemented? Does it achieve its claims? . . . )
substance (does this paper have enough substance, or would it benefit from more ideas or results?)
evaluation (to what extent has the application or tool been tested and evaluated? Have there been any user studies?)
meaning ful comparison (. . . )
impoact of ideas or results (how significant is the work described? Will novel aspects of the system result in other researchers . . . )
impact of accompanying software (if software . . . )
impact of accompanying dataset (if a dataset was submitted or released along with the paper, what is the expected impact . .. . )
reccomendation(there are many good submissions compeding for slots, how imporatn is it to feature this one? will people learn a lot by reading this paper or seeing it presented
reviewer confidence - how good of a job at reviewing did you do



ACH

